= mDCM - A DICOM library in C#

Copyright (c) 2006-2010 Colby Dillion, SL.* projects (c) 2011 Anders Gustafsson, Cureos AB 

Licensed and distributable under the terms of the LGPL 2.1 license: http://opensource.org/licenses/lgpl-2.1.php


== Summary

This is a Silverlight focused fork of the main mdcm project https://github.com/rcd/mdcm .

The Silverlight class library, project SL.Dicom, provides a stripped Silverlight version of the Dicom + Dicom.Linq class libraries. A number of shortcuts are currently taken to yield a successful build of the SL.Dicom library, including but not limited to:

* exclusion of all HL7, Imaging and Network functionality
* codecs are not registrered
* encoding support limited to UTF-8 (Silverlight does not support ASCII encoding; UTF-8 should be compatible with ASCII)
* compression and decompression silently ignored (SL does not seem to provide compression out-of-the-box)
* MD5 hash code generation returns SHA1 hash codes (SL does not provide MD5 support; where applicable I have applied using alias directives to the SHA1 analogues)
* logging to console target only, due to limitations in the SL NLog library
* serialization functionality is disabled

SL.DicomToXml is a simple proof-of-concept that the SL.Dicom library can provide DICOM functionality in a Silverlight application. It simply reads the user selected DICOM file and dumps the content excluding pixel data in XML format on the web page.

Currently, there are some issues with reading of data from files. The original DICOM library repeatedly opens the specified file based on a reference to its local file name. With Silverlight, this file is not immediately accessible via its local name, since Silverlight works with temporary isolated storage for its applications. So far, I have overloaded DicomFileFormat.Load with two methods using a System.IO.FileStream rather than the file name as input. A similar approach is likely to be required for other parts of the library as well.


== Links

* Main project Wiki https://github.com/rcd/mdcm/wiki
* Google Groups page http://groups.google.com/group/mdcm

